Welcome to the optional explanation of this formula.
So the part of the formula with the factorials calculates the number of
ways to generate the collection of features where the order matters.
This will make much more sense as we go along this notebook.
But we're trying to explain this part of the formula right here.
So it's this part of the formula right here.
So we're adding features to a coalition.
The following concept comes from coalition game theory.
So when we say coalition,
think of it as a team were the members of the team are
added one after another in a particular order.
Let's imagine that we're creating a coalition of features by adding
one feature at a time to the coalition and including all M features.
Now, M is the set of features.
So the absolute value symbols are saying the size of
our set M. Let's say we have three features total.
Here are all the possible ways that we can create this coalition of features.
So we could add features zero,
followed by feature one,
then followed by feature two,
and these are all the six ways that we can do that.
Notice that for M equals three features there's three
factorial or six possible ways to create the coalition.
Now, let's look at the marginal contribution of a feature.
For each of the six ways to create a coalition,
let's see how to calculate the marginal contribution of feature X_2.
So, for example, if we added feature zero first,
then followed by feature one,
followed by feature two,
notice that we can say,
how does the model perform if it only is given information from feature zero and one.
So that's this right here. How does a model do?
Compare that to when the model also has feature two.
Similarly, here's a case where we first have feature zero and then picture two.
So in this case,
we want to see how does the model do if it only knows feature zero,
that's this right here.
Then how does the model do when it's also given feature two as well as feature zero.
So that's this expression here.
So that's why the order of the sequence matters.
We're seeing how did the model do up until right before we add feature two,
and then we say, how does a model do when we then add a feature two as well.
So you can pause here to look at the other examples here;
3, 4, 5, 6.
I'll just go over this one which is how does
the model do when it doesn't have any features?
Because in this series you see that the first feature we add is feature two.
So the comparison we're making is how did the model do when it doesn't
have any other features compared to when it has feature two.
So when it doesn't have any of the features,
we'll see this later in the code but it will just take a simple average
of the labels to give its best prediction of the output.
So again, you can pause here to read through
all of these examples, but I'll continue on here.
So notice that some of these marginal contributions look the same.
For example, the first and third sequences would get the same result.
So here's the first sequence.
Notice it's the difference between when it has
all three features compared to when the model only has features zero and one,
and this third sequence is actually the same thing.
There's just different order.
So how does a model do with all the features
compared when it only has feature one and zero?
So same with the fifth and sixth sequences,
these are actually the same thing.
So we can use factorials to help us calculate the number of
permutations that result in the same marginal contribution.
So that's what we're going to see next.